h2. Release Notes for Eclipse EEF

{toc:style=disc|minLevel=2|maxLevel=3}

This document contains the release notes for recent major releases of EEF.


h3(#eef1.7.0). Changes in EEF 1.7.0

h4. User-Visible Changes

* <span class="label label-success">Added</span> Labels and hyperlinks can now have buttons on their right side

h4. Specifier-Visible Changes

* <span class="label label-success">Added</span> A brand new widget outside of the default library is now available to edit references using an easier approach. Only the name of the reference to edit is necessary and the rest will be computed by the EEF runtime.
* <span class="label label-success">Added</span> Widget actions are now available on labels and hyperlinks.
* <span class="label label-success">Added</span> Labels and hyperlinks now have a displayExpression. If unused, the result of the valueExpression will be converted to a string using the @java.lang.Object#toString()@ operation.
* <span class="label label-success">Added</span> A new widget named List has been added, it has the same behavior as the multiple reference widget of the previous release.

h4. Developer-Visible Changes

* <span class="label label-info">Modified</span> The interface @org.eclipse.eef.core.api.EditingContextAdapter@ has now a new method @getEditingDomain()@ which is used to return an EditingDomain for the EEF runtime.
* <span class="label label-info">Modified</span> The constructor of the EEFLabelController now requires an EditingContextAdapter to run the expression of the widget actions.
* <span class="label label-success">Added</span> The class EEFStyleHelper is now API in order to help support style and conditional styles for custom widgets. Developers will need to override org.eclipse.eef.ide.ui.api.widgets.AbstractEEFWidgetLifecycleManager.getEEFStyleHelper() to provide their own implementation. The easiest way will need to extend the regular implementation and modify the three switchs to provide using the dedicated getters.


h3(#eef1.6.0). Changes in EEF 1.6.0

h4. User-Visible Changes

* <span class="label label-success">Added</span> The user interface has been recreated from scratch with a new runtime. As a result multiple changes can be visible in the user interface.

h4. Specifier-Visible Changes

* <span class="label label-success">Added</span> A brand new "language":language/overview.html is available to create your user interface. Have a look at the documentation for additional details.

h4. Developer-Visible Changes

* <span class="label label-success">Added</span> A brand new API is available to create your user interface. Have a look at the documentation for additional details.
